For feature selection, we describe the number of features selected by DAL as a function of λ1 in Figure 7(a), and the RMSE on the testing set using DAL as a function of
λ1 in Figure 7(b) when α = β = 0. From Figure 7(a) we observe that the number of features selected by DAL decreases as the parameter λ1 increases, which indicates the
effectiveness of feature selection by the extra sparse layer.The mean activation of node j in the extra sparse layer over the whole training set is defined as MAj =
1mPmi=1 a(1)(i)j.
In the experiments, the range of MAj (j = 1, ..., s1) is in [8.5906e−140, 1] after the training when λ1 = 3. Thejth feature is removed from the network when MAj is
very small. Here the feature selection can remove the least important features from the deep networks without decreasing the prediction accuracy a lot. The input features
in our experiments are different air pollution data and meteorological data, which are all related to the prediction of the PM2.5’s concentration. The feature selection keeps
the major features, while removes the minor features, with the smallest decline of the predictor’s performance, which reveals the importance of different input features of the
black-box model. From Figure 7(b) we observe that, when λ1 = 2, there are 133 features removed from the feature space, while the RMSE only increases 0.0013. To make a
comparison, we remove 133 features randomly from the feature space 5 times, and train the model using the left features. The RMSE increases 0.0041 on average, which
is much larger than that of the feature selection method,indicating that the extra sparse layer truly selects the most relevant features to the target during the training in the
proposed model.

                                    ROOT MEAN SQUARE ERROR (RMSE)
                                    Interpolation                       Prediction
                                    Hour 0                              Hour 1-12     Hour 13-24    Hour 25-36    Hour 3-48
                           DAL      0.0667                              0.0667        0.0724        0.0797        0.0877
                          
                         
This paper studies three important topics in the area of urban air computing: the interpolation, prediction, and feature analysis of fine-gained air quality. The solutions to these
topics can provide crucial information to support air pollution control, and consequently generate great societal and technical impacts. Most existing efforts focus on solving the
three problems separately by establishing different models.In this paper, we develop a general and effective approach called DAL to unify the interpolation, prediction, feature
selection and analysis of the fine-grained air quality into one model. In order to improve the performance of interpolation and prediction, we utilize the intrinsic characteristics of
the spatio-temporal data and the information contained in the unlabeled data by embedding spatio-temporal semisupervised learning on the output layer of neural network.

We also propose a novel method to perform feature selection in the input layer of neural network, whose optimization is easy to solve and performance is well in removing the
redundant or irrelevant features. Combining with feature selection, association analysis discovers the importance of different input features to the predictions of the neural net-
works. The proposed feature selection and analysis method has the ability to reveal some inner mechanism of the black-box deep network models. Extensive experiments are con-
ducted on real data sources collected from Beijing, China,showing that DAL is superior to the comparison rivals when solving the topics of interpolation, prediction, and feature
analysis of fine-gained air quality.
